Add description of deployment settings to k8s objects. (#1942)
Azure/iotedge: kubernetes/doc/edge-deployment-to-k8s-translations.md

# Conversion of Edge Deployment ModuleSpec to Kubernetes Deployments.

> Azure IoT Edge on Kubernetes project will take an existing Azure IoT Edge application that is 

Reviewer: Mention of "projects" and "applications" isn't required because we deploy Edge devices (not applications) right?
```suggestion
Azure IoT Edge supports deploying an IoT Edge device on a Kubernetes cluster, as well as a single Docker instance. 
```

Author: Pulled in the other changes, but I reworded this more extensively.

running on a single device and install that application into a Kubernetes cluster.  The expectation 

> is that these applications will "just work," regarless of where it is installed.  In order to do 

Reviewer 2: >regarless [](start = 45, length = 9)

*regardless

> that, the Edge on K8s project has to transform the edge deployment into Kubernetes objects which 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that, Edge on K8s has to transform the edge deployment into Kubernetes objects which 
```

> will provide the framework for modules to communicate with other modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will support module-module communication. 
```

> Existing Edge Deployments running on a single device specifies module setting via the [Docker 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing Edge Deployments running on a single device specify module setting via the [Docker 
```

ContainerCreate structure](https://docs.docker.com/engine/api/v1.40/#operation/ContainerCreate). 

> This means Edge on K8s will have to make decisions about how to provide the module framework based 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means Edge on K8s will need to translate Edge device and module configuration based 
```

on these settings. This document will describe which values are used from the module specification 
and how they are transformed into Kubernetes objects.

The application will create Deployments, Services, ImagePullSecrets, PersistentVolumeClaims, and 
ServiceAccounts to establish this framework.

> Each will be described in detail in subsequent sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Edge Docker to K8s object mappings will be described in detail in subsequent sections.
```

## Deployment

> Each Edge Module will create one Deployment. 

Reviewer 3: Please also clarify the namespace part. Each module belongs to one namespace. How is namespace defined/created in K8s.

There will be a default label set used throughout the deployment. Three labels assigned to every 
object, all values will be sanitized to be a K8S label value:
- **net.azure-devices.edge.module** = module name
- **net.azure-devices.edge.deviceid** = device id
- **net.azure-devices.edge.hub** = associated IoT Hub name.

> ### metadata

Reviewer 3: How about namespace.

    - **net.azure-devices.edge.original-moduleid** = unsanitized module id from Edge Deployment Spec.
    - then `settings.createOptions.Labels` will be added to the pod's annotations.
    
##### spec (PodSpec)
- **containers**
    - **Proxy container**
      This will contain the specification for the module to iotedged proxy.
    - **Module container**
        - **name** = Name will be the module name, sanitized to be a K8s identifier.
        - **image** = `settings.image`
        - **env** = env will contain some predefined settings for all modules, then:
            - Add all environment variables from `env` section in module spec
            - Add all environment variables from `settings.createOptions.Env`
        - **securityContext**
            - privileged = Derived from `settings.createOptions.HostConfig.Privileged`
        - **volumeMounts** = There are 4 sources to volume mounts.
            - bind mounts from `settings.createOptions.HostConfig.Binds` in format "host path:target path[:readwrite mode]".
              *This is not recommended for Edge on K8s.*
                - Name = Sanitized host path
                - MountPath = target path

>                 - readOnlyProperty = readwrite mode if set, default is false

Reviewer: Looking at these defaults - we should have a separate README.md that can be grepped by helm describe a bit better. Take a look at this stable chart as a good example - https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/dex

Author: We need that, especially for the Helm chart, but this document is trying to be as comprehensive as I can, and this section in particular doesn't organize well into a table.

            - volume mounts from `settings.k8s-extensions.volumes[*].volumeMounts`. Placed in spec 
              as provided.
- **imagePullSecrets**
    If the module server address matches a server address in the Edge Deployment's 
    *Container Registry Settings*, this will be an array with one name, the created ImagePullSecret.
- **volumes** There are 4 sources for volumes.
    - bind mounts from `settings.createOptions.HostConfig.Binds` in format "host path:target path[:readwrite mode]".
      *This is not recommended for Edge on K8s.*
        - name = Sanitized host path
        - hostPath
            - path = host path
            - type = "DirectoryOrCreate"
    - bind mounts from `settings.createOptions.HostConfig.Mounts`
      *This is not recommended for Edge on K8s.*
        - name = mount.Source
        - hostPath
            - path = mount.Source
            - type = "DirectoryOrCreate"
    - volume mounts from `settings.createOptions.HostConfig.Mounts`
        - name = mount.Source
        - persistentVolumeClaim is assigned if edge runtime is started with `persistentVolumeName` 
          or `storageClassName` set

>             - claimName = mount.Source

Reviewer 3: Need to change to moduleName + mount.Source

user, and the runtime has been set to expect to use persistent volumes.

The runtime is set to expect PVs by assigning `persistentVolumeName` or `storageClassName` at 
startup. User will also need to set a value for `persistentVolumeClaimDefaultSizeInMb`. This value 
gives the Edge Runtime a default claim size as this is not provided by `createOptions`.

### metadata

- **name**        = mount.Source from `settings.createOptions.HostConfig.Mounts`
- **labels**      = Default label set

### spec (PersistentVolumeClaimSpec)
- **accessModes** = list with one element, "ReadOnlyMany" if mount.ReadOnly is true, otherwise, 
  "ReadWriteMany"
- **resources**
    - **requests**
        - **storage** = `persistentVolumeClaimDefaultSizeInMb`
    - **volumeName** = `persistentVolumeName` - assigned if set.
    - **storageClass** = `storageClassName` - assigned if set and `persistentVolumeName` is not set.

## ServiceAccount

Service accounts are described in the document describing our [Edge RBAC](rbac.md)

## Map of configuration source to Kubernetes objects

### Helm Chart

| Setting | Affected k8s objects |

> | ------- | -------------------- |

Author: Yes, we need it, although this document is primarily written to explain how we translate the EdgeDeployment ModuleSpec with  CreateContainer settings to K8s objects.

# Conversion of IoT Edge Deployment ModuleSpec to Kubernetes Deployments.

Azure IoT Edge was originally designed for running on a standalone system. Now with IoT Edge on 
Kubernetes, Azure IoT Edge supports deployments of edge devices on a Kubernetes cluster. 
The expectation is that these edge deployments running on a single node will "just work" 
when installed in a Kubernetes cluster.  In order to do that, IoT Edge on K8s has to transform the edge 

> deployment specifcation into Kubernetes objects which will support module-module communication. 

Author: I'll try to clarify. In an IoT Edge application, module to module communication is done by module name, and we do this both on single node and k8s by DNS resolution.   The key part of this paragraph is that Edge on K8s allows the user to port IoT Edge applications without changing these applications.

| createOptions.HostConfig.PortBindings | [Service](#service) |

### Helm Chart

Some information needed to provision the edge deployment isn't available until the runtime is 
installed on the cluster. These are the settings which can be assigned in the Helm chart, and how 
they affect the Kubernetes objects.

| Setting | Affected k8s objects |
| ------- | -------------------- |
| edgeAgent.env.portMappingServiceType | [Service](#service) |
| edgeAgent.env.persistentVolumeClaimDefaultSizeInMb | [Deployment](#podtemplate), [PersistentVolumeClaim](#persistentvolumeclaim) |
| edgeAgent.env.persistentVolumeName | [Deployment](#podtemplate), [PersistentVolumeClaim](#persistentvolumeclaim) |
| edgeAgent.env.storageClassName | [Deployment](#podtemplate), [PersistentVolumeClaim](#persistentvolumeclaim) |
| edgeAgent.env.enableExperimentalFeatures | [Deployment](#podtemplate) - See [K8s Extensions](#k8s-extensions) for details |
| edgeAgent.env.enableK8sExtensions | [Deployment](#podtemplate) - See [K8s Extensions](#k8s-extensions) for details |

## Conversion details

The following sections describe in detail how the edge deployment gets translated into Kubernetes
objects.

## Namespace

> IoT Edge on K8s is intended to be installed in a namespace - the `default` namespace is not recommended. 

Author: You could install it into default namespace before.  It's easier to do now with Helm 3, so I wanted to spell that out.

> The namespace is provided by the user and must be created before the runtime can be installed. The 

Author: We expect the user to run `kubectl create ns`, or create the namespace via whichever deployment mechanism they have.  This fits better with Helm 3 (Helm 3 doesn't create the namespace) and mounting user defined PVCs, configmaps and secrets.

- **template** = See [PodTemplate](#podtemplate).

### PodTemplate

##### metadata

- **name**        = Name will be the module name, sanitized to be a K8s identifier.
- **namespace**   = The given namespace.
- **labels**      = Default label set.
- **annotations** = The pod's metadata will have one fixed annotation:
    - **net.azure-devices.edge.original-moduleid** = unsanitized module id from edge deployment specification.
    - then `settings.createOptions.Labels` will be added to the pod's annotations.
    
##### spec (PodSpec)
- **containers**
    - **Proxy container**
      This will contain the specification for the module to iotedged proxy.
    - **Module container**
        - **name** = Name will be the module name, sanitized to be a K8s identifier.
        - **image** = `settings.image`
        - **env** = env will contain some predefined settings for all modules, then:
            - Add all environment variables from `env` section in module spec.
            - Add all environment variables from `settings.createOptions.Env`.
        - **securityContext**
            - privileged = Derived from `settings.createOptions.HostConfig.Privileged`.

>         - **volumeMounts** = There are 4 sources to volume mounts.

Reviewer 3: These are very helpful! Like it.

    *Container Registry Settings*, this will be an array with one name, the created ImagePullSecret.
- **volumes** There are 4 sources for volumes.
    - bind mounts from `settings.createOptions.HostConfig.Binds` in format "host path:target path[:readwrite mode]".
      *This is not recommended for IoT Edge on K8s.*
        - name = Sanitized host path
        - hostPath
            - path = host path.
            - type = "DirectoryOrCreate".
    - bind mounts from `settings.createOptions.HostConfig.Mounts`
      *This is not recommended for IoT Edge on K8s.*
        - name = mount.Source
        - hostPath
            - path = mount.Source
            - type = "DirectoryOrCreate".
    - volume mounts from `settings.createOptions.HostConfig.Mounts`
        - name = mount.Source
        - persistentVolumeClaim is assigned if edge runtime is started with `persistentVolumeName` 
          or `storageClassName` set.
            - claimName = module name + mount.Source
            - readOnlyProperty = mount.ReadOnly
        - emptyDir is assigned otherwise.
    - volume mounts from `settings.k8s-extensions.volumes[*].volume`. Placed in spec as provided.

> - **serviceAccountName** = The module name, sanitized to be a K8s identifier.

Reviewer 3: It would be good to explain why serviceaccount is created; and how it is used for customer module.

Author: I'll link to the RBAC document, rather than restate it here.
